.github/instructions/plantuml.instructions.md, before:

---
name: PlantUML-Diagrams
description: Guidelines for creating and managing PlantUML diagrams
applyTo: "**/*.plantuml"
---

# PlantUML Diagram Guidelines

## Technical Specifications

- **File Extension**: Use `.plantuml` extension for all PlantUML diagram files
- **Location**: Store in `images/` subfolder of `01-supports-de-cours/`
- **Rendering**: Render using local server at http://localhost:9090
- **Build Process**: Generate diagrams manually using
  `./build-all-plantuml-diagram.sh` script

## File Organization

Each course module with diagrams should follow this structure:

```
XX.XX-topic/
└── 01-supports-de-cours/
    ├── README.md
    ├── PRESENTATION.md
    └── images/
        ├── home.jpg
        ├── diagram-name.plantuml
        └── diagram-name.png
```

## Diagram Creation Process

1. Create the `.plantuml` source file in the `images/` directory
2. Run the build script to generate PNG images:
   `./build-all-plantuml-diagram.sh`
3. Reference the generated PNG in README.md and PRESENTATION.md
4. Commit both the `.plantuml` source and the generated `.png` file

## PlantUML Best Practices

1. **Keep diagrams simple**: Focus on pedagogical clarity over technical
   completeness
2. **Use French labels**: All text in diagrams should be in French to match
   course language
3. **Consistent styling**: Follow the visual style established in existing
   diagrams
4. **Clear naming**: Use descriptive file names that reflect the diagram content
   - Example: `iteration.plantuml`, `sequence.plantuml`, `compilation.plantuml`

## Common Diagram Types

For this programming course, commonly used PlantUML diagram types include:

- **Activity diagrams**: For illustrating algorithms and control flow
- **Sequence diagrams**: For showing interactions and execution order
- **Component diagrams**: For explaining program structure and modules
- **State diagrams**: For demonstrating state transitions

## Example PlantUML Structure

```plantuml
@startuml
!theme plain

' Diagram content in French
start
:Instruction 1;
:Instruction 2;
if (Condition?) then (oui)
  :Action si vrai;
else (non)
  :Action si faux;
endif
stop

@enduml
```

## Integration with Course Materials

- Reference diagrams in README.md using:
  `![Description](./images/diagram-name.png)`
- Reference diagrams in PRESENTATION.md using the same syntax
- Always provide alt text for accessibility
- Ensure diagrams complement the textual explanations

## Maintenance

- When updating a diagram, modify the `.plantuml` source file
- Re-run the build script to regenerate the PNG
- Commit both the updated source and the new PNG
- Verify that all references to the diagram still work correctly

Commit message:

Refactor GitHub repository instructions and workflows
- Updated GitHub Copilot instructions with detailed project guidelines and teaching philosophy.
- Removed outdated code examples and markdown formatting instructions.
- Added new markdown guidelines for consistency in documentation.
- Created comprehensive Marp presentation guidelines to standardize presentation structure.
- Deleted module structure instructions and integrated relevant content into existing documentation.
- Enhanced PlantUML guidelines for better file management and rendering processes.
- Implemented a new GitHub Actions workflow for building and deploying course presentations to GitHub Pages and creating releases.

.github/instructions/plantuml.instructions.md, after:

---
description: Instructions when working with PlantUML files in this repository.
applyTo: "**/*.puml, **/*.plantuml"
---

# PlantUML guidelines

- Always use the `.puml` file extension for PlantUML files.

## Technical Specifications

- Location: Store in `images/` subfolder of `01-supports-de-cours/`
- Rendering: Render using local server at http://localhost:9090
- Build Process: Generate diagrams manually using
  `./build-all-plantuml-diagram.sh` script

## File Organization

Each course module with diagrams should follow this structure:

```
XX.XX-topic/
└── 01-supports-de-cours/
    ├── README.md
    ├── PRESENTATION.md
    └── images/
        ├── home.jpg
        ├── diagram-name.plantuml
        └── diagram-name.png
```

## Diagram Creation Process

1. Create the `.plantuml` source file in the `images/` directory
2. Run the build script to generate PNG images:
   `./build-all-plantuml-diagram.sh`
3. Reference the generated PNG in README.md and PRESENTATION.md
4. Commit both the `.plantuml` source and the generated `.png` file

## PlantUML Best Practices

1. **Keep diagrams simple**: Focus on pedagogical clarity over technical
   completeness
2. **Use French labels**: All text in diagrams should be in French to match
   course language
3. **Consistent styling**: Follow the visual style established in existing
   diagrams
4. **Clear naming**: Use descriptive file names that reflect the diagram content
   - Example: `iteration.plantuml`, `sequence.plantuml`, `compilation.plantuml`

## Common Diagram Types

For this programming course, commonly used PlantUML diagram types include:

- **Activity diagrams**: For illustrating algorithms and control flow
- **Sequence diagrams**: For showing interactions and execution order
- **Component diagrams**: For explaining program structure and modules
- **State diagrams**: For demonstrating state transitions

## Example PlantUML Structure

```plantuml
@startuml
!theme plain

' Diagram content in French
start
:Instruction 1;
:Instruction 2;
if (Condition?) then (oui)
  :Action si vrai;
else (non)
  :Action si faux;
endif
stop

@enduml
```

## Integration with Course Materials

- Reference diagrams in README.md using:
  `![Description](./images/diagram-name.png)`
- Reference diagrams in PRESENTATION.md using the same syntax
- Always provide alt text for accessibility
- Ensure diagrams complement the textual explanations

## Maintenance

- When updating a diagram, modify the `.plantuml` source file
- Re-run the build script to regenerate the PNG
- Commit both the updated source and the new PNG
- Verify that all references to the diagram still work correctly
